README.md, before:

# SwiftBolt ML

A macOS SwiftUI application for stock, futures, and options analysis with ML-powered forecasting.

## Tech Stack

- **Client**: Swift 5.9+, SwiftUI, macOS 14+
- **Backend**: Supabase Edge Functions (TypeScript/Deno)
- **Database**: PostgreSQL (Supabase)
- **ML**: Python 3.11+, scikit-learn, pandas
- **Data Providers**: Finnhub, Massive API

## Project Structure

```
SwiftBolt_ML/
├── backend/          # Supabase Edge Functions
├── client-macos/     # SwiftUI macOS app
├── ml/               # Python ML pipeline
├── infra/            # Docker, deployment configs
├── docs/             # Architecture documentation
├── CLAUDE.md         # Claude Code instructions
└── README.md
```

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- macOS 14+
- Xcode 15+
- Node.js 18+
- Python 3.11+
- Supabase CLI

### Environment Setup

1. Copy environment template:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. Fill in your API keys in `.env`

### Backend Development

```bash
cd backend
npm install
npx supabase start
npx supabase functions serve
```

### ML Pipeline

```bash
cd ml
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -e .
```

### macOS Client

Open `client-macos/SwiftBolt.xcodeproj` in Xcode and run.

## Documentation

- [Master Blueprint](docs/master_blueprint.md) - Full architecture
- [Implementation Checklist](docs/blueprint_checklist.md) - Progress tracker

## License

Proprietary - All rights reserved

Commit message:

docs: expand README with comprehensive project scope and architecture overview
- Replace brief app description with detailed platform overview covering data ingestion, market intelligence, forecasting, and desktop client
- Add "Project Scope" section documenting four core layers: data ingestion/normalization, market intelligence storage, forecasting/analytics pipelines, and macOS research workstation
- Describe Supabase Edge Functions coordination of Alpaca/Polygon feeds, corporate actions, and coverage

README.md, after:

# SwiftBolt ML

SwiftBolt ML is an end-to-end market intelligence platform that unifies intraday/historical market data ingestion, automated Supabase orchestration, Python ML forecasting, and a macOS SwiftUI workstation for equities and options research.

## Project Scope

- **Data ingestion & normalization:** Supabase Edge Functions coordinate Alpaca and Polygon (Massive) feeds, corporate action reconciliation, intraday backfills, and coverage monitoring.
- **Market intelligence layer:** Supabase Postgres models store calendars, corporate actions, OHLC/IV histories, options chains, and orchestrator telemetry for downstream consumers.
- **Forecasting & analytics:** Python pipelines generate ensemble forecasts, ranking evaluations, and health reports that feed both dashboards and the desktop client.
- **macOS research workstation:** The SwiftUI client renders ML overlays, options analytics, and alerting tools tailored for discretionary traders.


## Tech Stack

- **Client**: Swift 5.9+, SwiftUI, macOS 14+
- **Backend**: Supabase Edge Functions (TypeScript/Deno)
- **Database**: PostgreSQL (Supabase)
- **ML**: Python 3.11+, scikit-learn, pandas
- **Data Providers**: Finnhub, Massive API

## Project Structure

```
SwiftBolt_ML/
├── backend/          # Supabase Edge Functions
├── client-macos/     # SwiftUI macOS app
├── ml/               # Python ML pipeline
├── infra/            # Docker, deployment configs
├── docs/             # Architecture documentation
├── CLAUDE.md         # Claude Code instructions
└── README.md
```

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- macOS 14+
- Xcode 15+
- Node.js 18+
- Python 3.11+
- Supabase CLI

### Environment Setup

1. Copy environment template:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. Fill in your API keys in `.env`

### Backend Development

```bash
cd backend
npm install
npx supabase start
npx supabase functions serve
```

### ML Pipeline

```bash
cd ml
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -e .
```

### macOS Client

Open `client-macos/SwiftBolt.xcodeproj` in Xcode and run.

## Documentation

- [Master Blueprint](docs/master_blueprint.md) - Full architecture
- [Implementation Checklist](docs/blueprint_checklist.md) - Progress tracker

## License

Proprietary - All rights reserved
