.github/workflows/README.md, before:

# GitHub Actions Workflows

This document describes the consolidated GitHub Actions workflow architecture for SwiftBolt ML.

## Architecture Overview

```
Daily Data Refresh (data ingestion only)
Intraday Ingestion (data ingestion only)

ML Orchestration (schedule/manual)
Intraday Forecast (schedule/manual)
```

## Primary Workflows

### 1. Daily Data Refresh (`daily-data-refresh.yml`)

**The canonical workflow for all OHLC data ingestion.**

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Schedule | `0 6 * * *` (6:00 AM UTC daily) |
| Trigger | `schedule` + `workflow_dispatch` |

#### Inputs

| Input | Description | Default |
|-------|-------------|---------|
| `full_backfill` | Run complete backfill with gap detection | `false` |
| `symbol` | Single symbol to process | All watchlist |
| `timeframe` | Single timeframe to process | All (m15, h1, h4, d1, w1) |

#### Usage

```bash
# Incremental refresh (default)
gh workflow run daily-data-refresh.yml

# Full backfill for specific symbol
gh workflow run daily-data-refresh.yml -f full_backfill=true -f symbol=AAPL

# Single timeframe refresh
gh workflow run daily-data-refresh.yml -f timeframe=d1
```

---

### 2. Intraday Ingestion (`intraday-ingestion.yml`)

**Fetches fresh intraday OHLC data during market hours. Runs before forecast so data is fresh.**

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Schedule | `*/15 13-22 * * 1-5` (UTC): every 15 min at :00, :15, :30, :45 |
| UTC window | 13:00–22:59 UTC ≈ 8:00–17:59 ET |
| Concurrency | `intraday-ingestion-*`; forecast runs at :05,:20,:35,:50 to avoid overlap |

#### Inputs

| Input | Description | Default |
|-------|-------------|---------|
| `symbols` | Comma-separated symbols | All watchlist |
| `timeframes` | Comma-separated timeframes | `m15,h1` |
| `force_refresh` | Force refresh even if data exists | `false` |

---

### 3. Intraday Forecast (`intraday-forecast.yml`)

**Generates intraday forecasts on schedule or manual trigger. Writes to `ml_forecasts_intraday`.**

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Schedule | `5,20,35,50 13-22 * * 1-5` (UTC): 5 min after each quarter-hour, Mon–Fri |
| UTC window | 13:00–22:59 UTC ≈ 8:00–17:59 ET (market + extended) |
| Concurrency | `intraday-forecast-*`; does not overlap ingestion (ingestion at :00,:15,:30,:45) |
| CLI (from `ml/`) | `python -m src.intraday_forecast_job --horizon 15m` (or 1h, 4h, 8h, 1D / all) |
| Horizons | 15m (4-step = 1h ahead), 1h, 4h, 8h, 1D; manual can pass `--symbol SPY` for canary-only |

---

### 4. ML Orchestration (`ml-orchestration.yml`)

**Consolidated ML pipeline for nightly processing.**

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Schedule | `0 4 * * 1-5` (4:00 AM UTC weekdays) |
| Trigger | `schedule` + `workflow_dispatch` |

#### Jobs

| Job | Description |
|-----|-------------|
| `ml-forecast` | Ensemble predictions (RF + XGBoost) |
| `options-processing` | Options backfill and snapshots |
| `model-health` | Evaluation, drift detection, data quality |
| `smoke-tests` | Basic validation checks |

#### Inputs

| Input | Description | Default |
|-------|-------------|---------|
| `job_filter` | Specific job to run | All jobs |
| `symbol` | Single symbol to process | All watchlist |

---

## Supporting Workflows

### Deployment

| Workflow | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `deploy-supabase.yml` | Deploy Edge Functions and migrations |
| `deploy-ml-dashboard.yml` | Deploy ML dashboard function |

### CI/Testing

| Workflow | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `test-ml.yml` | ML tests and linting (push/PR trigger) |
| `api-contract-tests.yml` | API schema validation |
| `frontend-integration-checks.yml` | E2E integration checks |

### Queue Processing

| Workflow | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `job-worker.yml` | Process pending forecast/ranking jobs |
| `orchestrator-cron.yml` | Supabase orchestrator (manual only) |

---

## Legacy Workflows (Archived)

Legacy workflows have been moved to `./legacy/` directory. See `legacy/README.md` for details.

**Consolidated Summary (22 → 8 workflows):**

| Archived From | Consolidated Into |
|---------------|-------------------|
| `backfill-*.yml`, `daily-historical-sync.yml` | `daily-data-refresh.yml` |
| `alpaca-intraday-*.yml`, `intraday-update*.yml` | `intraday-ingestion.yml` |
| `ml-forecast.yml`, `ml-evaluation.yml`, `*-monitoring.yml`, `options-nightly.yml` | `ml-orchestration.yml` |
| `job-worker.yml`, `orchestrator-*.yml`, `symbol-*.yml` | Various or deprecated |

---

## Required Secrets

Configure these in GitHub repository settings (Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions):

| Secret | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `SUPABASE_URL` | Supabase project URL |
| `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` | Supabase service role key |
| `SUPABASE_ANON_KEY` | Supabase anonymous key |
| `SUPABASE_ACCESS_TOKEN` | Supabase CLI access token |
| `SUPABASE_PROJECT_REF` | Supabase project reference |
| `DATABASE_URL` | Direct Postgres connection string |
| `ALPACA_API_KEY` | Alpaca API key |
| `ALPACA_API_SECRET` | Alpaca API secret |

---

## Composite Actions

### Setup ML Environment (`.github/actions/setup-ml-env`)

Shared setup for ML Python environment with caching.

```yaml
- name: Setup ML Environment
  uses: ./.github/actions/setup-ml-env
  with:
    supabase-url: ${{ secrets.SUPABASE_URL }}
    supabase-key: ${{ secrets.SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY }}
    database-url: ${{ secrets.DATABASE_URL }}
    alpaca-api-key: ${{ secrets.ALPACA_API_KEY }}
    alpaca-api-secret: ${{ secrets.ALPACA_API_SECRET }}
```

---

## Monitoring

### Supabase Tables Updated

| Table | Workflow |
|-------|----------|
| `ohlc_bars_v2` | Daily Data Refresh, Intraday Ingestion |
| `indicator_values` | Intraday Forecast |
| `ml_forecasts_intraday` | Intraday Forecast (15m/1h/4h/8h/1D points) |
| `ml_forecasts` | ML Orchestration |
| `forecast_evaluations` | ML Orchestration (model-health) |
| `model_weights` | ML Orchestration (model-health) |
| `options_chain_snapshots` | ML Orchestration (options-processing) |
| `options_ranks` | ML Orchestration (options-processing) |

### Data Flow

1. **Daily data**: `Daily Data Refresh` (ingestion only)
2. **Intraday data**: `Intraday Ingestion` (ingestion only)
3. **ML**: `ML Orchestration` + `Intraday Forecast` run on schedule/manual as separate pipelines

---

## Live market test (15m forecasts + hourly validation)

**Pre-open wiring check**

1. Run **Test Workflow Fixes** (`.github/workflows/test-workflow-fixes.yml`) with `test_type=integration` (or `all`) to confirm secrets, `setup-ml-env`, and DB connectivity.
2. Required secrets: `SUPABASE_URL`, `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`, `DATABASE_URL`, `ALPACA_API_KEY`, `ALPACA_API_SECRET`.

**Every 15 minutes (market hours)**

- **Intraday Ingestion** runs at :00, :15, :30, :45 UTC (13–22 UTC Mon–Fri).
- **Intraday Forecast** runs at :05, :20, :35, :50 UTC and calls (from `ml/`):
  - `python -m src.intraday_forecast_job --horizon 15m` (and 1h, 4h, 8h, 1D when horizon=all).
- 15m horizon uses 4-step multi-step (1 hour ahead) and writes to `ml_forecasts_intraday`. Manual run with a single symbol: `--symbol SPY`.

**Hourly validation (“is it updating?”)**

- **Hourly Canary (15m→1h)** (`.github/workflows/hourly-canary-15m.yml`):
  - **Predict** (scheduled at 14:35–19:35 UTC): runs intraday forecast for canaries (AAPL, MSFT, SPY) with `--horizon 15m`.
  - **Hourly summary** (scheduled at 15:40, 16:40, 17:40, 18:40, 19:40, 20:40 UTC): runs `hourly_canary_summary.py --forecast-source intraday` for the single :30 bar that just closed (09:30–14:30 CST). Confirms the latest `ml_forecasts_intraday` row (`created_at <= target`) vs realized closes; uploads artifact `hourly-canary-summary`.
  - **EOD summary** (scheduled at 21:10 UTC): same script with all targets `09:30,10:30,...,14:30` CST for the full day.
- Manual summary example (CST date, canaries):
  ```bash
  cd ml && python scripts/hourly_canary_summary.py \
    --symbols SPY,AAPL,MSFT --date-cst 2026-02-12 \
    --forecast-source intraday --out validation_results/hourly_canary_summary.csv
  ```
- The script reports whether it used `points_exact`, `points_nearest`, or `target_price` for a quick check that 15m points align with target timestamps.

---
## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Workflow skipped (weekend/after-hours):**
- Intraday workflows only run during market hours
- Use `workflow_dispatch` for manual override

**Gap detection failures:**
- Run with `full_backfill=true` to repair data gaps
- Check Alpaca API rate limits

**ML Orchestration not triggering:**
- Verify the schedule is enabled in GitHub Actions
- Run manually via `workflow_dispatch`

### Logs and Artifacts

- Each workflow uploads validation reports as artifacts
- Check job summaries for detailed results
- Use `gh run view <run-id>` for CLI access

Commit message:

Enhance intraday workflows with staleness checks and forced backfill
- Updated `intraday-forecast.yml` to include a new step for checking m15 staleness and triggering backfill if needed, improving data freshness before forecasting.
- Modified `intraday-ingestion.yml` to implement a similar staleness check, ensuring that stale data is automatically refreshed during ingestion.
- Enhanced `hourly-canary-15m.yml` to support an `include_missing_realized` input for debugging purposes, allowing forecast rows with missing realized data to be included.
- Improved documentation in the README to clarify the behavior of the new intraday data watchdog and its role in maintaining data integrity.

These changes strengthen the reliability of the intraday forecasting framework by ensuring that data is current and valid before processing.

.github/workflows/README.md, after:

# GitHub Actions Workflows

This document describes the consolidated GitHub Actions workflow architecture for SwiftBolt ML.

## Architecture Overview

```
Daily Data Refresh (data ingestion only)
Intraday Ingestion (data ingestion only)
Intraday Data Watchdog (staleness check + forced backfill)

ML Orchestration (schedule/manual)
Intraday Forecast (schedule/manual)
```

## Primary Workflows

### 1. Daily Data Refresh (`daily-data-refresh.yml`)

**The canonical workflow for all OHLC data ingestion.**

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Schedule | `0 6 * * *` (6:00 AM UTC daily) |
| Trigger | `schedule` + `workflow_dispatch` |

#### Inputs

| Input | Description | Default |
|-------|-------------|---------|
| `full_backfill` | Run complete backfill with gap detection | `false` |
| `symbol` | Single symbol to process | All watchlist |
| `timeframe` | Single timeframe to process | All (m15, h1, h4, d1, w1) |

#### Usage

```bash
# Incremental refresh (default)
gh workflow run daily-data-refresh.yml

# Full backfill for specific symbol
gh workflow run daily-data-refresh.yml -f full_backfill=true -f symbol=AAPL

# Single timeframe refresh
gh workflow run daily-data-refresh.yml -f timeframe=d1
```

---

### 2. Intraday Ingestion (`intraday-ingestion.yml`)

**Fetches fresh intraday OHLC data during market hours. Runs before forecast so data is fresh.**

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Schedule | `*/15 13-22 * * 1-5` (UTC): every 15 min at :00, :15, :30, :45 |
| UTC window | 13:00–22:59 UTC ≈ 8:00–17:59 ET |
| Concurrency | `intraday-ingestion-*`; `cancel-in-progress: false` so long runs aren't killed |

#### Inputs

| Input | Description | Default |
|-------|-------------|---------|
| `symbols` | Comma-separated symbols | All watchlist |
| `timeframes` | Comma-separated timeframes | `m15,h1` |
| `force_refresh` | Force refresh even if data exists | `false` |

**Notes:** Before fetch, the workflow **checks m15 staleness** (latest realized bar vs now). If any symbol's m15 is >25 min old or missing, it automatically passes `--force` for m15 so the backfill won't hit the "<24h skip" path. After fetch, prints **latest realized `ohlc_bars_v2` timestamp** per symbol/timeframe. Scheduled runs are gated by market hours (9–17 ET); manual dispatch bypasses gating. The **Intraday Data Watchdog** recovers from gaps if ingestion falls behind.

---

### 2b. Intraday Data Watchdog (`intraday-data-watchdog.yml`)

**Low-frequency safety net.** Primary backfill is **event-driven** in `intraday-forecast.yml` (checks staleness before forecasting, backfills only stale symbols). This workflow runs every 30 min as a backup.

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Schedule | `*/30 14-22 * * 1-5` (UTC): every 30 min during market hours |
| Concurrency | `intraday-watchdog-*`; `cancel-in-progress: false` |

#### Behavior

1. Queries Supabase for latest realized m15 bar per canary symbol (AAPL, MSFT, SPY).
2. If any symbol has no data or latest bar is >25 min old, runs forced backfill for those symbols only.
3. Only backfills **stale symbols**, not the full watchlist.

**Use case:** Safety net when forecast runs are skipped or event-driven backfill fails.

---

### 3. Intraday Forecast (`intraday-forecast.yml`)

**Generates intraday forecasts on schedule or manual trigger. Writes to `ml_forecasts_intraday`.**

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Schedule | `5,20,35,50 13-22 * * 1-5` (UTC): 5 min after each quarter-hour, Mon–Fri |
| UTC window | 13:00–22:59 UTC ≈ 8:00–17:59 ET (market + extended) |
| Concurrency | `intraday-forecast-*`; `cancel-in-progress: false` (backfill step can run long) |
| CLI (from `ml/`) | `python -m src.intraday_forecast_job --horizon 15m` (or 1h, 4h, 8h, 1D / all) |
| Horizons | 15m (4-step = 1h ahead), 1h, 4h, 8h, 1D; manual can pass `--symbol SPY` for canary-only |

**Event-driven backfill:** Before forecasting, checks m15 staleness for symbols being forecast. If any symbol's latest m15 bar is >25 min old or missing, runs forced backfill for **only those symbols**, then proceeds with forecast. "Needs data → fill data → forecast" loop.

---

### 4. ML Orchestration (`ml-orchestration.yml`)

**Consolidated ML pipeline for nightly processing.**

| Property | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Schedule | `0 4 * * 1-5` (4:00 AM UTC weekdays) |
| Trigger | `schedule` + `workflow_dispatch` |

#### Jobs

| Job | Description |
|-----|-------------|
| `ml-forecast` | Ensemble predictions (RF + XGBoost) |
| `options-processing` | Options backfill and snapshots |
| `model-health` | Evaluation, drift detection, data quality |
| `smoke-tests` | Basic validation checks |

#### Inputs

| Input | Description | Default |
|-------|-------------|---------|
| `job_filter` | Specific job to run | All jobs |
| `symbol` | Single symbol to process | All watchlist |

---

## Supporting Workflows

### Deployment

| Workflow | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `deploy-supabase.yml` | Deploy Edge Functions and migrations |
| `deploy-ml-dashboard.yml` | Deploy ML dashboard function |

### CI/Testing

| Workflow | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `test-ml.yml` | ML tests and linting (push/PR trigger) |
| `api-contract-tests.yml` | API schema validation |
| `frontend-integration-checks.yml` | E2E integration checks |

### Queue Processing

| Workflow | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `job-worker.yml` | Process pending forecast/ranking jobs |
| `orchestrator-cron.yml` | Supabase orchestrator (manual only) |

---

## Legacy Workflows (Archived)

Legacy workflows have been moved to `./legacy/` directory. See `legacy/README.md` for details.

**Consolidated Summary (22 → 8 workflows):**

| Archived From | Consolidated Into |
|---------------|-------------------|
| `backfill-*.yml`, `daily-historical-sync.yml` | `daily-data-refresh.yml` |
| `alpaca-intraday-*.yml`, `intraday-update*.yml` | `intraday-ingestion.yml` |
| `ml-forecast.yml`, `ml-evaluation.yml`, `*-monitoring.yml`, `options-nightly.yml` | `ml-orchestration.yml` |
| `job-worker.yml`, `orchestrator-*.yml`, `symbol-*.yml` | Various or deprecated |

---

## Required Secrets

Configure these in GitHub repository settings (Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions):

| Secret | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `SUPABASE_URL` | Supabase project URL |
| `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` | Supabase service role key |
| `SUPABASE_ANON_KEY` | Supabase anonymous key |
| `SUPABASE_ACCESS_TOKEN` | Supabase CLI access token |
| `SUPABASE_PROJECT_REF` | Supabase project reference |
| `DATABASE_URL` | Direct Postgres connection string |
| `ALPACA_API_KEY` | Alpaca API key |
| `ALPACA_API_SECRET` | Alpaca API secret |

---

## Composite Actions

### Setup ML Environment (`.github/actions/setup-ml-env`)

Shared setup for ML Python environment with caching.

```yaml
- name: Setup ML Environment
  uses: ./.github/actions/setup-ml-env
  with:
    supabase-url: ${{ secrets.SUPABASE_URL }}
    supabase-key: ${{ secrets.SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY }}
    database-url: ${{ secrets.DATABASE_URL }}
    alpaca-api-key: ${{ secrets.ALPACA_API_KEY }}
    alpaca-api-secret: ${{ secrets.ALPACA_API_SECRET }}
```

---

## Monitoring

### Supabase Tables Updated

| Table | Workflow |
|-------|----------|
| `ohlc_bars_v2` | Daily Data Refresh, Intraday Ingestion |
| `indicator_values` | Intraday Forecast |
| `ml_forecasts_intraday` | Intraday Forecast (15m/1h/4h/8h/1D points) |
| `ml_forecasts` | ML Orchestration |
| `forecast_evaluations` | ML Orchestration (model-health) |
| `model_weights` | ML Orchestration (model-health) |
| `options_chain_snapshots` | ML Orchestration (options-processing) |
| `options_ranks` | ML Orchestration (options-processing) |

### Data Flow

1. **Daily data**: `Daily Data Refresh` (ingestion only)
2. **Intraday data**: `Intraday Ingestion` (ingestion only)
3. **ML**: `ML Orchestration` + `Intraday Forecast` run on schedule/manual as separate pipelines

---

## Live market test (15m forecasts + hourly validation)

**Pre-open wiring check**

1. Run **Test Workflow Fixes** (`.github/workflows/test-workflow-fixes.yml`) with `test_type=integration` (or `all`) to confirm secrets, `setup-ml-env`, and DB connectivity.
2. Required secrets: `SUPABASE_URL`, `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`, `DATABASE_URL`, `ALPACA_API_KEY`, `ALPACA_API_SECRET`.

**Every 15 minutes (market hours)**

- **Intraday Ingestion** runs at :00, :15, :30, :45 UTC (13–22 UTC Mon–Fri).
- **Intraday Forecast** runs at :05, :20, :35, :50 UTC and calls (from `ml/`):
  - `python -m src.intraday_forecast_job --horizon 15m` (and 1h, 4h, 8h, 1D when horizon=all).
- 15m horizon uses 4-step multi-step (1 hour ahead) and writes to `ml_forecasts_intraday`. Manual run with a single symbol: `--symbol SPY`.

**Hourly validation (“is it updating?”)**

- **Hourly Canary (15m→1h)** (`.github/workflows/hourly-canary-15m.yml`):
  - **Predict** (scheduled at :05, :20, :35, :50 UTC, hours 15–22): 15-min cadence; runs intraday forecast for canaries (AAPL, MSFT, SPY) with `--horizon 15m`.
  - **Hourly summary** (scheduled at 15:40, 16:40, 17:40, 18:40, 19:40, 20:40 UTC): runs `hourly_canary_summary.py --forecast-source intraday` for the single :30 bar that just closed (09:30–14:30 CST). Confirms the latest `ml_forecasts_intraday` row (`created_at <= target`) vs realized closes; uploads artifact `hourly-canary-summary`.
  - **EOD summary** (scheduled at 21:10 UTC): same script with all targets `09:30,10:30,...,14:30` CST for the full day.
- Before summary/hourly_summary, the workflow **prints latest realized `ohlc_bars_v2` (m15) timestamp** per symbol for debugging. **Scheduled** summary/hourly_summary runs default to **`--include-missing-realized`** so the CSV still has forecast rows (with `missing_realized=true`) when realized bars are absent; manual dispatch can turn this off via the **`include_missing_realized`** input.
- Manual summary example (CST date, canaries; add `--include-missing-realized` to see forecast-only rows when realized is missing):
  ```bash
  cd ml && python scripts/hourly_canary_summary.py \
    --symbols SPY,AAPL,MSFT --date-cst 2026-02-12 \
    --forecast-source intraday --out validation_results/hourly_canary_summary.csv
  ```
- The script reports whether it used `points_exact`, `points_nearest`, or `target_price` for a quick check that 15m points align with target timestamps.

---
## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Workflow skipped (weekend/after-hours):**
- Intraday workflows only run during market hours
- Use `workflow_dispatch` for manual override

**Gap detection failures:**
- Run with `full_backfill=true` to repair data gaps
- Check Alpaca API rate limits

**ML Orchestration not triggering:**
- Verify the schedule is enabled in GitHub Actions
- Run manually via `workflow_dispatch`

### Logs and Artifacts

- Each workflow uploads validation reports as artifacts
- Check job summaries for detailed results
- Use `gh run view <run-id>` for CLI access
